# Meeting minutes 2025-03-25

### Participants

- Ialov Nashimovski (IN)
- Axel Martensson
- Thomas Neidhold (TN)
- Ole Engel
- Peter Lundberg
- Niklas Worschech (NW)
- Thomas Dittrich-Salomon
- Adeel Asghar
- Hubertus Tummescheit (HT)

## Summary of MA Board Decision

- Treat SEMLA as a layered standard, with a release process decoupled from major standards
- Current Proposal: Treat SEMLA as one of (several) "MA common standards"
- Proposal: Have this under the umbrella of MAP-COORD with independent working groups underneath
  - SEMLA is one such working group, led by Hubertus T.
- Details to be hashed out in a special Board meeting on technical coordination
- For this and other layered standards: make sure clear name space definition, as for FMI/SSP layered standards, with SEMLA under the org.modelica namespace.
- If Modelica annotations are desired/needed, define n MAP-LANG
- Furter progress possibly during MAP-COORD meeting in Link√∂ping 2025-3-26
  - HT to propose how-to do with SEMLA

## Status of existing issues
- Ticket #9 was re-opened, more discussion needed
- Added new labels for ticket: Specification, Reference Implementation, and used to classify existing tickets
- NW: how to trigger an update of openssl library?
- IN: start with new issue, then a PR
- NW: How to deal with

## Round table questions & comments
- Thomas Neidhold (TN), ESI: good progress with SEMLA, release planned for summer
- TN: Better documentation, a tutorial and examples are needed
  - for tool vendors
  - for library providers
  - they have different needs
- Thomas Dittrich-Salomon: hard to understand for library vendors
- IN: current exmaples in repo for license manager are Modelon-Impact specific
- [x] ACTION: (HT) Clarify Scope of SEMLA specification in the specification. The license manager details are not specified, this is up to the tool vendor. (issue # to be added when done)
- [x] ACTION: Update readme under doc with status from last board meeting (HT)
- [x] ACTION: (HT) Question to board: how should the spec be published? Preferably as similar as possible to other MA standards, as github-site, with github-action automation [#28](https://github.com/modelica/Encryption-and-Licensing/issues/28)
- [x] ACTION: (HT) Enable github actions in SEMLA repo. It looks like it works
- [x] ACTION: (HT) extra page for tool support: Vendors can update with links to their public keys.
- [ ] POLL: Please check out [#15](https://github.com/modelica/Encryption-and-Licensing/issues/15) about how to handle export of FMUs from models.

## Other
- Future meeting cadence: every other month
- HT to make sure that the vendors not present at this meeting are kept updated
- HT to do a doodle poll for end of May.
